---
layout: post
title: "Rational, opinionated, non-objective and philosophy-less take on Israel Palestine"
category: Politics
tags:
 - English
 - Israel
 - Palestine
---

This is a very complex(-ified) topic everyone has a different take on, and I'm not very interested in inaccurately rewriting my thoughts about it again and again;
So here it is, fully.

# Terminology

The two sides of this conflict use widely different meanings for various terms. In this post,
* I *won't* use the terms **Colonization**, **Apartheid**, and **Genocide**. The title says philosophy-less and so it'll remain; The less fancy words I use, the more people will bother reading this product of hours of my time,
  and the more we can just agree how this entire fiasco just so fucked up, instead of arguing about words.
* **Directly involved organization** refers to Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Hezbollah, Hamas, and Iran.
* **Israel** refers to the State of Israel.
* **Israel Palestine** refers to all land under Israel or Palestine at the time of [Rabbin's assassination][Assassination of Rabbin], including Gaza.
* **Judea** refers to the *current* government of Israel, as of 2024.
* **Judea and Samaria** is the transliteration of the Hebrew name for the West Bank, "יהודה ושומרון".
* **Kahanism**[^1] refers to the flavour of Jewish Supremacy started by [Meir Kahane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meir_Kahane)
  and continued by [Ben Gvir] (the ideology American pro-Palestinians call "Zionism").
* **Lebanon** refers to the State of Lebanon, not neccessarily Hizballah.
* **Levant** refers to the geographical core of the conflict: Israel, Palestine, Gaza, Lebanon, Jordan.
* **Palestine** refers to the de-facto non-existant State of Palestine.
* **Palestinian Authority**, or **PA** refers to the autonomous council ruling the West Bank.
* **Racism** has its usual meaning, with a twist: In Israel Palestine
* **Zionism** refers to Israeli patriotism (that is, the Israeli meaning).

# The Parties Involved

I don't think it is rational to form a take on a conflict without first understanding the motives of all involved parties; Therfore, here's an alphabetical list of them, for your convenience.

Note, as the only recently-democratic directly involved organization (and due to its own assassinations), Israel has a much more stable and therefore, relevant web of motivations in its government than other organizations;
I'm not going to bother documenting Hamas' nor Hezbollah's weekly designated survivors, and as an Israeli, I do not have nearly enough information about specific members of the Iranian government to document it sufficiently.

## Israel

The current government is dependent on four things:
* The Israeli population's acceptence of the need for the war (this is why a lot of Israelis oppose ceasefires; they truly believe the war is *needed*).
* The Palestinian population's lack of ability to organize without support from bodys with different motives, such as [Iran], its proxies, or the [Palestinian Authority].
* External Funding and Trade, due to [Netanjahu]'s abolishment of support for local farming, weapon factories, etc. the last decade,
  in addition to Obama restricting usage of American funding to American soil.

I've chosen to list some of the main actors in Israeli Politics; Let me know if you think I should add some more, but these are the ones most prominent and usually talked about.

### The Netanjahus

[Ben Gvir] has holds the Netanjahus as political hostages — in the last elections, [B. Netanjahu] did not win enough votes to become Prime Minister without allying with supremacist parties,
who can therefore exit the coalition any time, immediately ending Netanjahu's term. That is: B. Netanjahu is *not* fully in charge. Ben Gvir, and perhaps [his wife][S. Netanjahu], are.
*This does not mean he's innocent of his countless crimes*.

The Netanjahus have a son currently (2024) living in the USA under government protection, Ya'ir Netanjahu, who was involved in *several* racist controversies;
Some of their political, whole-country-affecting decisions can be atributted to trying to protect their son; It is plausible they're Helicopter parents and a threat to their son,
to them, is a threat to the entire nation; therefore, it is likely they'll attempt to establish a monarchy some time in the future.

#### Prime Minister Binyamin Netanjahu

He's a classic case of political egoism; He's sure that without him, the State of Israel cannot survive, and therefore, to keep him on his throne (and in his point of view, to save Israel),
any action is justifiable; He cannot differentiate between his own interests and the people's, and
he will do anything to remain in power, regardless of how it seems to harm his ideology, country, or party.

#### Sara Netanjahu

Theorerized by the Israeli Left and Center to puppeteer her husband, known to abuse the staff of The House of the Prime Minister (Israel's version of the White House), she is generally considered by non-Bibist Israelis to be a, quote, "greedy sadistic control freak leeching off of public funds".

This being true is largely irrelevant; As all of the Netanjahus' actions (and therefore, motives) would then be atributted to Sara instead of Binyamin.

### Minister of Interior Security Ben Gvir and Kahanism

Ben Gvir is a Kahanist, the ideology non-famously described by a Kahanist Rabbi to be different from Nazism simply due to "being correct"[^1].
He's also the Minister of Interior Security, aka the Minister of the Police (this'll be relevant in three paragraphs or so).

Now, before you read the rest of this: I'm not being racist (I could not care less about the exact word) here.
Most Haredim truly, *truly* live on public funds without contributing to society at all. It is very important for you to understand this.
Their job is to pray and study a book they remember by heart by the age of 12, and they're paid to do so by the government.
They're wildly uneducated in anything beyond religious studies; They do not learn math, science, anything; And this results in them using even *more* public funds,
as an uneducated society, for example, would eat more sugar (there are statistics somewhere; but take this as an example), causing them to need more dental services,
which are paid for by the public (as Israel is a welfare state)! I'm not calling against any Haredi here; they're victims, their vote automatically bought by politicians at birth, and even worse,
using others' money. Truly, the perfect heist.

Haredim, as you might've gussed from my introduction to this section, are Ben Gvir's and Kahanism's main voterbase and [bloc vote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voting_bloc) for whoever their Rabbi tells them to;
Therefore, Ben Gvir is pressured by said Rabbis to deliver on his promises, and he does so mainly using [Trump] tactics: announcing horrible, terrible things,
forcing people to get used to them (except with more, "it's war, and he's an idiot anyway, what can we do", denial-of-wtf than "It's free speech so he can", this is *not* America);
This is why Ben Gvir often tweets and says things that ultimately hinder his cause; As if he didn't, the Rabbis would disapprove of him and select a new guy to fill the position;
This is a "do not assasinate, for there are worse" situation.

Speaking of the "DoNt AF Them AW" rule, Ben Gvir's trying to put all Arabs under a light of "criminals", that way he can justify destroying their homes and building new, free (rule of thumb: "if it ain't free it ain't for a Haredi" — it rhymes cause it's true),
shiny ones for his Rabbis and their followers to excitedly colonize;
This is why:
* The Israeli government is violating said "DoNt AF Them AW" rule: to create a more bloodthirsty, more violant Hamas and Hezbollah, legitimizing Ben Gvir's agenda.
* Druze people, who likely suffered the most from this war, and yet are still serving in the IDF, do not get proper treatment;
  Ben Gvir is just waiting for them to grow tired of this so he could frame them, and therefore, all Israeli Arabs (who've truly became a part of Israeli society due to the war, a situation Ben Gvir dislikes),
  as criminals.
* Crime in Israeli Arab society was never solved; Such a thing would go directly against Ben Gvir's, and other, less-extremist politicians' agendas.
* Ben Gvir is trying to takeover the Israeli police and/or found a private militia;
  making people look like criminals is much easier when you can arrest them whenever it's most conenvient for you, instead of having to wait for unimportant things such as truth and reality.
  It's also useful for silencing those pesky protesters that cause your Rabbis to think you aren't doing your job well, and that you should be replaced.

### Bezalel Smotrich

Remember the settlement thing from before? Well, if you asked yourselves, "but rando on the internet! How can Haredim both not work, *and* displace others, *and* settle on that land?", I have the answer!
If you didn't, bad news, you're somewhat gullible to stuff randos on the internet say about entire groups of peoples.

My answer is very simple: Bezalel Smotrich. The guy who keeps giving government money to illegal Israeli villages. And I mean illegal by *Israeli* law.
Think of him as Ben Gvir, but if instead of publicly celebrating killing and displacing people, he just conveniently avoids preventing the former, and not-so-causally encourages the latter; If I say "Mitnakhabel" (compound word for "mitnakhel", not-so-legal-implications version for "settler" and "mekhabel", "terrorist"), that's the guy you think of.

Ben Gvir has interesting context behind him; this guy is just classically stupid/evil/incompetent/choose your own adjective. But to avoid having this section look too empty, here's a nice unfun fact for you.
Smotrich's voterbase have a knack out of taking over Khiloni (Jewish non-religious) villages. First, context; Israel has a unique system where villages are allowed to admit who may live in a village,
based on how fitting their personality is to the existing community. Think HOAs, but one that you actually agree with on stuff (don't worry, you'll still fight with your neighbors. Constantly). Cool!
I assume you may be asking, "but rando on the internet! Isn't this discrimination?", so I'll answer in two ways:
1. Discrimination is illegal (read: it's only being done *under* the table).
2. If a village is purposefully not letting you live there cause you're *insert adjective*, you probably don't want to live there anyway;
   Think of this as a safety net for stubborn minorities. It's not a bug, it's a feature.

Now, surely, you must be asking, "but RotI! if villages can select who lives with them, how do they takeover villages?", and I have an answer! What a coincidence.
Said answer is, once in a while, they're in the government (and other onces in other whiles, they're in the local council)!
And the answer is split in four:
1. Khilonim can't tell them no because they're religious; Admittance committees have to prove they're a takeover-er.
2. Religious people pull a stinky, and when they're in the government, they deny Khiloni people for being Khiloni.
3. What Khiloni wants to live in a village where literally everything is forbidden on saturdays?
4. No Khiloni cares enough about what religion a village is to relocate their entire life to it, as they do not have any religious motivation for the idea.

### The Bidens

No, no, I'm not claiming Joe Biden, still-POTUS-but-not-for-long, is a part of the Israeli government.
But I'm claiming that like Biden, they protect the status quo. Why? Because they were raised thinking they're living in a near-utopia, and that this is a good thing,
and they simply don't want to deal with the identity crisis it'd take to realize that no, your country isn't perfect, and that actually, it's far from it.
This is nearly everyone else in the government; People who hate [Netanjahu] for his inaction and corruptness, but still agree with him on a policy level, because that's what we were always doing.
And of course, like everything in Israel, there's also a financial motive involved; If they accept that they, as politicians, are wrong, they'll lose their voterbase, counting on the chance that the left will believe them.

There are some people in the government that are truly trying, but fail out of sheer incompetence; For example, Miri Regev. She genuinely tried fixing Israeli public transportation;
I'll sum her attempts as, please, God, may we have as many wars as the amount of bus lines I have managed not to hate under Regev's term as Minister of Transportation.
On a more serious note, this shows Netanjahu's and Ben Gvir's true motives; Instead of surrounding themselves with skilled people they can rely on ([Gallant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoav_Gallant)),
they choose people they can trust to be dumb enough not to betray them ([Israel Katz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israel_Katz) as Minister of Security;
Yes, the same Israel Katz who is *still* the Minister of Foreign Relations, and has managed to cause the entire world to hate Israel, a feat no other politician succeeded at for 75 years).

[^1]: See *Messiah Mode*, [David Sheen](http://davidsheen.com)'s excellent talk about Kahanism and Israeli politics as a whole, available [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eFl4U2NRJTg).

[Ben Gvir]: #minister_of_interior_security_ben_gvir_and_kahanism
[Netanjahu]: #the_netanjahus
[B. Netanjahu]: #prime_minister_binyamin_netanjahu
[S. Netanjahu]: #sara_netanjahu
[Trump]: #trump
[Assassination of Rabbin]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Yitzhak_Rabin
